# hello-world
learning to program, starting at the root
## When I first began my journey into web dev
It was around the spring of 2023 when I finally built my latest computer system with the intention to play around with Unreal Engine. I built a nice system, powered by an RTX 3070 LHR (which looking back I wish I would've opted for a 3080 instead.), an i5-12600k paired with 32GB of DDR4-3600mhz RAM. I was so excited when I finally finished the build, having put together everything I learned in the past from previous builds I was certain that this was my best work so far. I benchmarked it by running some of my favorite games, as well as some of the newer releases at the time and sure enough the system was everything I hoped for. If I had to describe the feeling, it was like when I came to America (15 years ago as of the time of writing this) and discovered the dusty PS3 which my American step dad kept in the living room. Being a retired Air Force veteran of 40 something years old, he had little passion for gaming and only had one game for the system, Metal Gear Solid 4; although as a young Romanian boy who grew up watching Hanna-Barbera reruns on Jetix, which were old even by that time, this machine was a whole new world to me. Looking back now I suppose it's ironic, as I truly had stepped into a new world when I entered America. Everything was different, we weren't worried about food or water, I had access to greater education, and the toilets had water in them before you even pushed the lever.

This computer that I built was just like that PS3 those many years ago, it was a new world, an opportunity to do something I couldn't have dreamed of before. I booted up Unreal Engine 4 and it ran well, I used some of the prebuilt examples to test it out and play around, but I quickly came to a grim realization. I knew nothing about programming. I wasn't naive, I didn't think I was going to build a fancy new system, boot RE4 and magically became a game developer, but now that everything was at my fingertips it truly set in how tumultuous the task before me would be. I knew I would need to learn to program, but never took the time to think about where to begin, what language I'd need to learn, what IDE I'd use, how I create assets for my game. In that brief moment I believe my respect for game developers grew ever larger. My approach to the problem I encountered was a common solution amongst people in my generation, I went to YouTube looking for answers. After weeks of researching the topic, I concluded that the best place to start would be programming web pages. Sure, the information wouldn't transfer directly into game development, though it would at least introduce me to programming principles and set me down the path towards my greater goal in a way that's achievable for my current skills.

With the assistance of MDN Web Docs and ChatGPT I spent the next 3 months building a solid foundation in HTML and CSS, and just barely dipped my toes into the ocean which is JavaScript. I worked on a few personal learning projects, such as a text-based *Saw* game, a webstore, and a couple mock recreations of popular websites like Gmail. I began to feel like my understanding of HTML and CSS was strong enough to introduce JS into my workflow, and as I did so I was immediately shocked by how little I really grasped. With the very little bit of JS I had picked up, my entire understanding of HTML and CSS changed. Some things stayed the same, at the end of the day CSS will always be a cascading style sheet, but I don't believe I actually had a solid foundation of these languages until I played around with JS. It reformed the way that I viewed and organized my HTML documents. Looking back at my old projects, while they were effective in presenting the information on screen in the way that I wanted to, they were absolutely terrible in terms of organization and structure, and they would've absolutely collapsed under the pressure of todays mobile driven web environment. I probably spent about a month banging my head into the JS brick wall, and it didn't help that my overambition suggested that I tried to incorporate frameworks like Angular into my learning.

## One day when I came home from work
Working at Walmart barely paid the bills, and with a fiance and two kids barely paying isn't any way to make a living. I knew this, but being 22 I didn't really have many options, especially in my small city. This served to accelerate my self learning, and perhaps this is what led me to be over-ambitious.
